right let's bring in alzer's senior
political analyst Maran bashara joining
us here on the set Maran thanks for for
being with us um just in the last couple
of minutes Reuters has had an exclusive
uh wire drop saying the United States
intelligence is confirming that it was
an isol attack in Iran there's also the
the killing of Salah alarri in Beirut in
recent days which some conservative
commentators are saying why isn't the US
thanking Israel for taking out someone
on its own Terror list with its own $5
million bounty on it but it seems that
fears of escalation are really tramping
everything else for the White House at
the
member yes but not necessarily in a
negative way let me
explain so there's no doubt that blinkin
is once again in the Middle East to try
to clean Israel's mess but it's an
American Israeli mess because since day
one when President Biden told prime
minister Netanyahu go get Justice I
think it was clear that this was going
to be a devastating war and it's going
to have consequences and that's why the
United States sent two aircraft carriers
to the Mediterranean it anticipated
trouble it knew there was going to be
trouble but that's
strategically within the American
calculus now in the past four months
three four months it's it's got a
beating in terms of its standing in
terms of public relations in terms of
accusations of genocide and all that
stuff war crimes and so on but
strategically speaking America doesn't
feel to be in a defensive position it's
on the contrary since Biden left
Afghanistan humiliatingly since China
tried to and succeeded in mediating
between Iran and Saudi Arabia Biden has
been saying America is back America is
not going to leave vacuum in the Middle
East for Iran China and Russia to fill
so how will the United States then
become Central to the Middle East it
does it by two ways one it lightens
fires and then it puts out the fires
this is called pyromaniac fireman it
needs to make and create trouble in
order to be the solver of trouble it is
the benevolent Empire the indispensable
nation in the Middle East where blinkin
comes as the savior of the problems
America was already an instigator well
one of the sort of recipes for putting
out fires from the American perspective
was going to be some sort of plan for
the post-war situation in Gaza it had
been pushing and pushing the N
Administration to to come up with
something now it has come up with
something and it doesn't seem that it's
anything like what the Americans wanted
that's true by the way Netanyahu did not
approve the plan yet it's still a
military plan a military plan is
indispensable because without the
military there will be no plan right it
be still in the logic of War now there
are a few comments on that quick right
one I'm not sure Israel is going to win
the war in Gaza everyone's assuming that
Israel is going to win and they're
talking about the day after it's not
clear anymore Israel is getting a
beating in Gaza and if it must wind down
the war it must withdraw the reserves it
must stop the the indiscriminate bombing
it's not clear anymore that Israel will
actually win in terms of its own uh in
game in Gaza defeating Hamas that's not
clear anymore at all you think blinkin
is going to intervene again to try and
sort of wind things down before it gets
to that point absolutely he has to now
right now there are accusation of
genocide now we're talking about the
international uh court of justice
there's a lot of complications we have
boiling Arab capitals we have heating uh
borders with Lebanon there's a lot of
complications now and I think America
wants to wind down the war in an
election year that's not to the liking
of Netanyahu wants to continue with the
war because he has not re reached his
objective now America has already said a
number of things it wants the
Palestinian Authority to be involved in
Gaza Netanyahu and his government and
his military say no now they're talking
about local leaders they said they have
to end the occupation Israel says no
we're going to maintain security
oversight there they said that there's
going to be no Siege of God Israel is is
not talking about that so whatever
Israel is proposing is certainly not to
the liking of the Biden Administration
now Biden is going to have to Biden and
blink's going to have to have some tough
conversation with Netanyahu because
America's looking bad America is going
to continue to look bad as a student of
Israeli politics I tell you nanyo is not
going to listen to the United States
unless America uses its leverage if
Biden doesn't use his leverage with
Israel Israel's not going to listen it
has its own calculus it's insecurity
it's own understanding of what security
is and it's not simply going to roll
over because blink came to the area the
contrary every time blinking came to the
air at the past five times he's the one
who rolled over and nany continued the
Israel continue to do what it wants to
do in Gaza all right maren for now thank
you very much